[JUJU-4553] Update README.md to simplify and better align with docs (#1052)
canonical/operator: README.md

# The ops library
# The `ops` library

> <!-- The text below is also at the top of ops/__init__.py. Keep in sync! -->

Reviewer: Ah yes. I agree they can go out of sync as they do serve different purposes. But @tmihoc, yeah, let's remove the comment in `__init__.py` about keeping them in sync.

If @tmihoc wants to tweak the doc comment in `__init.py__` for the API docs in a later PR, that's fine too.

> <!-- The text below is also at the top of ops/__init__.py. Keep in sync! -->

Author: @tonyandrewmeyer thanks for bringing that up -- it's something to follow up on.
@benhoyt I've already removed it.

> The `ops` library is a Python framework for developing and testing Kubernetes and machine charms. While charms can be written in any language, `ops` defines the latest standard, and all new charms are encouraged to use Python with `ops`. The library is an official component of the Charm SDK, itself a part of [the Juju universe](https://juju.is/).

Reviewer: Perhaps link "charms" for first-timers?
```suggestion
The `ops` library is a Python framework for developing and testing Kubernetes and machine [charms](https://juju.is/docs/sdk/charmed-operators). While charms can be written in any language, `ops` defines the latest standard, and all new charms are encouraged to use Python with `ops`. The library is an official component of the Charm SDK, itself a part of [the Juju universe](https://juju.is/).
```

> > - `ops` is  [available on PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/ops/).
> > - The latest version of `ops` requires Python 3.8 or above.

Reviewer 2: I don't feel super strongly about this, but I find the left border to just be noise here. If you feel it should be there then feel feel to ignore this comment.

```suggestion
- `ops` is  [available on PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/ops/).
- The latest version of `ops` requires Python 3.8 or above.
```

Reviewer 2: I don't mind badges when used in moderation, although a lot of badges rely on third-party services and I don't like having that as a 'dependency' for a README (plus the badges work fine when you're reading this on Github but if you've checked out the repo and are reading it there not so much). It's definitely something that could be considered in the future, though.

> ||||

Reviewer: Is this extra blank row intentional? It looks a bit odd in the output.

Author: It's necessary, otherwise the table breaks down. PS Long term I'm hoping we can remove this table "map" with a diagrams or such.

|-|-|- |

> || [Juju](https://juju.is/docs/juju) | Learn how to quickly deploy, integrate, and manage charms on any cloud with Juju. <br>  _It's as simple as `juju deploy foo`, `juju integrate foo bar`, ..., on any cloud._ |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|| [Juju](https://juju.is/docs/juju) | Learn how to quickly deploy, integrate, and manage charms on any cloud with Juju. <br>  _It's as simple as `juju deploy foo`, `juju integrate foo bar`, and so on -- on any cloud._ |
```

Author: OK

||||
|| [Charmhub](https://charmhub.io/) | Sample our existing charms on Charmhub. <br> _A charm can be a cluster ([OpenStack](https://charmhub.io/openstack-base), [Kubernetes](https://charmhub.io/charmed-kubernetes)), a data platform ([PostgreSQL](https://charmhub.io/postgresql-k8s), [MongoDB](https://charmhub.io/mongodb), etc.), an observability stack ([Canonical Observability Stack](https://charmhub.io/cos-lite)), an MLOps solution ([Kubeflow](https://charmhub.io/kubeflow)), and so much more._ |
||||

> |:point_right:| [Charm SDK](https://juju.is/docs/sdk) | Write your own charm! <br> _Juju is written in Go, but our SDK supports easy charm development in Python._  |

Reviewer: Non-breaking space in "Charm SDK" so it doesn't wrap onto two lines in the output:

```suggestion
|:point_right:| [Charm SDK](https://juju.is/docs/sdk) | Write your own charm! <br> _Juju is written in Go, but our SDK supports easy charm development in Python._  |
```

Author: OK

## Give it a try

> Let's use `ops` to build a Kubernetes charm:

Reviewer 2: We use \U8217 elsewhere in the file, so probably should here also to be consistent.

```suggestion
Let’s use `ops` to build a Kubernetes charm:
```

### Set up

> > See [Charm SDK | Set up your development environment automatically > Set up an Ubuntu `charm-dev` VM with Multipass](https://juju.is/docs/sdk/dev-setup#heading--automatic-set-up-an-ubuntu-charm-dev-vm-with-multipass). <br> Choose the MicroK8s track. 

Reviewer: The link is a bit of a mouthful. I don't think we need the full tree. Perhaps:

```suggestion
> See [Charm SDK > Set up an Ubuntu `charm-dev` VM with Multipass](https://juju.is/docs/sdk/dev-setup#heading--automatic-set-up-an-ubuntu-charm-dev-vm-with-multipass). <br> Choose the MicroK8s track. 
```

Author: OK

### Write your charm

On your Multipass VM, create a charm directory and use Charmcraft to initialise your charm file structure:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```shell-script
```

Author: Done.

mkdir my-new-charm
cd my-new-charm
charmcraft init
```

> This has created a standard charm directory structure. Poke around.

Reviewer: Instead of three paragraphs following this that start with "Note that...", we could just remove the "Note that". Or append "Things to note:" to this paragraph and then make the notes bullet points (without the "note that" suffix).

Author: Done.

Note that the `metadata.yaml` file shows that what we have is an example charm called `my-new-charm`, which uses an OCI image resource `httpbin` from `kennethreitz/httpbin`.

Note that the `requirements.txt` file lists the version of `ops` to use.

Note that the `src/charm.py` file imports `ops` and uses `ops` constructs to create a charm class `MyNewCharmCharm`, observe Juju events, and pair them to event handlers:

> ```
> import ops
> ...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```python
import ops

```

Author: Done.

    """Charm the service."""

    def __init__(self, *args):
        super().__init__(*args)
        self.framework.observe(self.on['httpbin'].pebble_ready, self._on_httpbin_pebble_ready)
        self.framework.observe(self.on.config_changed, self._on_config_changed)

    def _on_httpbin_pebble_ready(self, event: ops.PebbleReadyEvent):
        """Define and start a workload using the Pebble API.

        Change this example to suit your needs. You'll need to specify the right entrypoint and
        environment configuration for your specific workload.

        Learn more about interacting with Pebble at at https://juju.is/docs/sdk/pebble.
        """
        # Get a reference the container attribute on the PebbleReadyEvent
        container = event.workload
        # Add initial Pebble config layer using the Pebble API
        container.add_layer("httpbin", self._pebble_layer, combine=True)
        # Make Pebble reevaluate its plan, ensuring any services are started if enabled.
        container.replan()
        # Learn more about statuses in the SDK docs:
        # https://juju.is/docs/sdk/constructs#heading--statuses
        self.unit.status = ops.ActiveStatus()

> ...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done

```

> See more: [`ops.PebbleReadyEvent`](https://ops.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html#ops.PebbleReadyEvent)

Note that the `tests/test_charm.py` file imports `ops.testing` and uses it to set up a testing harness:

> ```
> import ops.testing
> ...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```python
import ops.testing

```

Author: Done.

    def test_httpbin_pebble_ready(self):
        # Expected plan after Pebble ready with default config
        expected_plan = {
            "services": {
                "httpbin": {
                    "override": "replace",
                    "summary": "httpbin",
                    "command": "gunicorn -b 0.0.0.0:80 httpbin:app -k gevent",
                    "startup": "enabled",
                    "environment": {"GUNICORN_CMD_ARGS": "--log-level info"},
                }
            },
        }
        # Simulate the container coming up and emission of pebble-ready event
        self.harness.container_pebble_ready("httpbin")
        # Get the plan now we've run PebbleReady
        updated_plan = self.harness.get_container_pebble_plan("httpbin").to_dict()
        # Check we've got the plan we expected
        self.assertEqual(expected_plan, updated_plan)
        # Check the service was started
        service = self.harness.model.unit.get_container("httpbin").get_service("httpbin")
        self.assertTrue(service.is_running())
        # Ensure we set an ActiveStatus with no message
        self.assertEqual(self.harness.model.unit.status, ops.ActiveStatus())

> ...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done.

```

> See more: [`ops.testing.Harness`](https://ops.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#ops.testing.Harness)

Explore further, start editing the files, or skip ahead and pack the charm:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```shell-script
```

Author: Done.

charmcraft pack
```

> If you didn't take any wrong turn or simply left the charm exactly as it was, this should work and yield a file called `my-new-charm_ubuntu-22.04-amd64.charm` (the architecture bit may be different depending on your system's architecture). Use this name and the resource from the `metadata.yaml` to deploy your example charm to your local MicroK8s cloud:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you didn't take any wrong turn or simply left the charm exactly as it was, this has created a file called `my-new-charm_ubuntu-22.04-amd64.charm` (the architecture bit may be different depending on your system's architecture). Use this name and the resource from the `metadata.yaml` to deploy your example charm to your local MicroK8s cloud:
```

Author: Done.

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```shell-script
```

Author: Done.

juju deploy ./my-new-charm_ubuntu-22.04-amd64.charm --resource httpbin-image=kennethreitz/httpbin
```

> Congratulations, you’ve just built your first Kubernetes charm using Ops!

Reviewer 2: Everywhere else "ops" is written as `ops` so it probably should be here for consistency, although I would also be happy if it was plain "Ops" in lots of the cases as well :smile:.

```suggestion
Congratulations, you’ve just built your first Kubernetes charm using `ops`!
```

Author: I originally had Ops everywhere, then switched to `ops`. Happy with either! I'll stick with `ops` for now because that's what we have already.

### Clean up

> > See [Charm SDK | Set up your development environment automatically > Clean up](https://juju.is/docs/sdk/dev-setup#heading--automatic-set-up-an-ubuntu-charm-dev-vm-with-multipass).

Reviewer: Same comment here about the link being a mouthful, and probably not needing the full tree. Suggestion:
```suggestion
> See [Charm SDK > Clean up](https://juju.is/docs/sdk/dev-setup#heading--automatic-set-up-an-ubuntu-charm-dev-vm-with-multipass).
```

Author: Done.

# The `ops` library

The `ops` library is a Python framework for developing and testing charms in a consistent way, using standard Python constructs to allow for clean, maintainable, and reusable code. It is an official component of the Charm SDK, itself a crucial part of the Juju universe.

> > ✔️ `ops` is  ([`available on PyPI`](https://pypi.org/project/ops/)).
> >
> > ⚠️ The latest version of `ops` requires Python 3.8 or above.
> > 
> > 🥇 While charms can be written in any language, `ops` defines the latest standard. All new charms are encouraged to use it.

Reviewer: Call me a grumpy old man :-), but I don't think these particular emojis add any value. The check mark has little to do with PyPI, the warning sign isn't really a warning, and medal != standard. I think we could just make these bullet points. Suggestion (also note slight tweaks):

```suggestion
- `ops` is  [available on PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/ops/).
- The latest version of `ops` requires Python 3.8 or above.
- While charms can be written in any language, `ops` defines the latest standard. All new charms are encouraged to use Python with `ops`.
```

Author: I'll drop the emojis. I'll also try to move the third bullet in the introduction, as it seems to fit better there. (And some of the content there seems unnecessary.)

Reviewer 2: Feel free to call me a grumpy old man too :joy:, but I agree about the emojis - we still have the right-hand-pointing one in the table at the top. I'm not sure why that row gets/needs an emoji?

I don't feel super strongly about it (and in all seriousness, maybe I am showing my age) so if it has value then ignore this comment.

Author: > we still have the right-hand-pointing one in the table at the top

I wanted the table to act like a map to the Juju universe. I'm using it for the Juju and Charmcraft READMEs too. The right-hand-pointing emoji is supposed to be the "You are here" mark. PS I'm hoping some day we can replace it with a nice visual to the same effect -- ideally a visual with clickable links, just like in the table.

||||
|-|-|- |
|| Learn about Juju! | Start deploying charms: <br> https://juju.is/docs/juju <br> _Juju is declarative, model-driven, and has native support for integrations and scaling, on any cloud. You want to deploy `foo`? Run `juju deploy foo`! You wish to integrate `foo` and `bar`? Run `juju integrate foo bar`!_ |
||||
|| Get better at Juju! | Take advantage of the charm ecosystem: <br> https://charmhub.io/ <br> _Quickly deploy a cluster ([OpenStack](https://charmhub.io/openstack-base), [Kubernetes](https://charmhub.io/charmed-kubernetes)), a database ([PostgreSQL](https://charmhub.io/postgresql-k8s), [MongoDB](https://charmhub.io/mongodb), etc.), an observability stack ([Canonical Observability Stack](https://charmhub.io/cos-lite)), an MLOps solution ([Kubeflow](https://charmhub.io/kubeflow)), and so much more!_ |
||||

> |:point_right:| **Make Juju your own!** | Write your own charm: <br> https://juju.is/docs/sdk <br> _Juju is written in Go, but our SDK supports easy charm development in Python!_ |

Reviewer: I think this is a bit unintuitive:

- The first row starts with "Learn about Juju!" but then says "Start deploying charms", then links to learn-about-Juju docs, then describes Juju briefly. 3/4 of these are learning about Juju -- "Start deploying charms" doesn't seem to fit.
- I also wonder if we could link the text rather than have separate links. "Learn about Juju!" could be the link to the docs. Other approaches are possible too.
- Second row starts with "Get better at Juju", but then links to Charmhub and individual charms. Maybe "Install charms from Charmhub!" (linked)
- Similar with the third row -- could we reduce the number of "things" by linking "Learn how to write your own charm" or similar?
- I like the enthusiasm, but I think there are a few too many breathless exclamation points here. Maybe remove those in the left column.

Author: I'll drop the exclamation marks.
Happy to link the text instead of having separate links.
Regarding the titles -- I was trying to create a simple narrative around the Juju-world entrypoint, Juju, while also clarifying the connection to charms. Hence the Juju-based titles ("Get started with Juju", "Get better at Juju", "Make Juju your own") and the charm-based subtitles ("Start deploying charms", "Take advantage of the charm ecosystem", and "Write your own charm"). I'm still tempted by that by agree the way I've implemented right now feels forced.

> ## Give it a try!

Reviewer: I think the bold/heading is enough, no need for the exclaim!

```suggestion
## Give it a try
```

Author: Agreed.

> Let's use `ops` to build a Kubernetes charm!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's use `ops` to build a Kubernetes charm:
```

> ### Set up

Reviewer: I'm really not sure this section belongs here. I think we should link to something elsewhere, not repeat the relatively complicated setup on the `ops` README.

Author: I've restructured and updated the dev-setup doc so that we can straightforwardly link to it: https://juju.is/docs/sdk/dev-setup#heading--automatic-set-up-an-ubuntu-charm-dev-vm-with-multipass

You will need Charmcraft, a Kubernetes cloud, and Juju. The quickest way is to use a Multipass VM launched with the `charm-dev` blueprint. 

Install Multipass: [Linux](https://multipass.run/docs/installing-on-linux) | [macOS](https://multipass.run/docs/installing-on-macos) | [Windows](https://multipass.run/docs/installing-on-windows). On Linux:

```
sudo snap install multipass
```

Use Multipass to launch an Ubuntu VM with the `charm-dev` blueprint: 

```
multipass launch --cpus 4 --memory 8G --disk 30G --name tutorial-vm charm-dev 
```

Open a shell into the VM:

```
multipass shell tutorial-vm
```

Verify that you have Charmcraft, MicroK8s, and Juju:

```
snap list # should show all three
```

Verify that Juju recognizes MicroK8s as a localhost cloud:

```
juju clouds # should show both
```

Bootstrap a Juju controller into the MicroK8s cloud:

```
juju bootstrap microk8s tutorial-controller
```

Add a workspace, or 'model':

```
juju add-model tutorial-model
```

### Write your charm

Create a charm directory and use Charmcraft to initialise your charm file structure:

```

> mkdir my-new-charm; cd my-new-charm; charmcraft init

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mkdir my-new-charm
cd my-new-charm
charmcraft init
```

Author: Accepted, thanks!

```
This has created a standard charm directory structure. Poke around.

Note that the `metadata.yaml` file shows that what we have is an example charm called `my-new-charm`, which uses an OCI image resource `httpbin` from `kennethreitz/httpbin`.

> Note that the `requirements.txt` file lists a version of `ops`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the `requirements.txt` file lists the version of `ops` to use.
```

Author: Accepted, thanks!

Note that the `src/charm.py` file imports `ops` and uses `ops` constructs to create a charm class `MyNewCharmCharm`, observe Juju events, and pair them to event handlers:

```

> ...
> import ops
> ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion

import ops

```

Reviewer 2: Ah, I missed that @benhoyt had made a similar suggestion to the one I just made (this comment was hidden in the files tab because it's on outdated changes). I also really don't like these.

I don't think we need to be explicit about the template file from `charmcraft init` having more content than what's being displayed. If you feel strongly about that then I would actually cut all of the top before the `class` line (`import ops` doesn't really add much to the tutorial and is implied by the use of `ops.X`) and if the end really needs to have something (I don't feel it does) then I think a `# Charm code continues` comment or similar would be better than the ellipsis (which has a different meaning in Python than in English).

> class MyNewCharmCharm(ops.CharmBase):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
class MyNewCharm(ops.CharmBase):
```

Author: That was the automatic name in the code, based on the name of the directory. I could change the name of the directory. What would make sense? `foo`? Not great...

Reviewer: Perhaps we can call the directory `ops-example`, and then the charm would be called `OpsExampleCharm`? This also fits better with "No charm or operator suffix" in https://juju.is/docs/sdk/naming#heading--naming-charms

Author: Done.

    def _on_httpbin_pebble_ready(self, event: ops.PebbleReadyEvent):
        """Define and start a workload using the Pebble API.

        Change this example to suit your needs. You'll need to specify the right entrypoint and
        environment configuration for your specific workload.

        Learn more about interacting with Pebble at at https://juju.is/docs/sdk/pebble.
        """
        # Get a reference the container attribute on the PebbleReadyEvent
        container = event.workload
        # Add initial Pebble config layer using the Pebble API
        container.add_layer("httpbin", self._pebble_layer, combine=True)
        # Make Pebble reevaluate its plan, ensuring any services are started if enabled.
        container.replan()
        # Learn more about statuses in the SDK docs:
        # https://juju.is/docs/sdk/constructs#heading--statuses
        self.unit.status = ops.ActiveStatus()
...
```

> See more: [`ops.PebbleReadyEvent`](https://ops.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html#ops.PebbleReadyEvent)

Note that the `tests/test_charm.py` file imports `ops.testing` and uses it to set up a testing harness:

```

> ...
> import ops.testing
> ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion

import ops.testing

```

Author: I used the dots to indicate a partial quote. Happy to drop the first set though.

class TestCharm(unittest.TestCase):
    def setUp(self):
        self.harness = ops.testing.Harness(MyNewCharmCharm)
        self.addCleanup(self.harness.cleanup)
        self.harness.begin()

> ...

Reviewer: I think we need at least one simple test here, `test_pebble_ready` maybe, to give the flavour of testing with Harness. Let us know if you can't find/add a good one.

Author: Will add in more of the content of tests/unit/test_charm.py.

```

> See more: [`ops.testing.Harness`](https://ops.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#ops.testing.Harness)

Explore further, start editing the files, or skip ahead and pack charm:

```
charmcraft pack
```

If you didn't take any wrong turn or simply left the charm exactly as it was, this should work and yield a file called `my-new-charm_ubuntu-22.04-amd64.charm` (the architecture bit may be different depending on your system's architecture). Use this name and the resource from the `metadata.yaml` to deploy your example charm to your local MicroK8s cloud:

```
juju deploy ./my-new-charm_ubuntu-22.04-amd64.charm --resource httpbin-image=kennethreitz/httpbin
```

Congratulations, you’ve just built your first Kubernetes charm using Ops!

> ### Clean up

Reviewer: If we decide to remove the "Set up" section and just link it, we can do the same here.

Author: Updated the dev-setup such that we can easily link to the cleanup bit: https://juju.is/docs/sdk/dev-setup#heading--automatic-clean-up

Delete your Multipass VM:

```
multipass delete --purge my-vm
```

Uninstall Multipass: [Linux](https://multipass.run/docs/installing-on-linux) | [macOS](https://multipass.run/docs/installing-on-macos) | [Windows](https://multipass.run/docs/installing-on-windows). On Linux:

```
snap remove multipass
```

## Next steps

### Learn more

> - Read our [user docs](https://juju.is/docs/sdk/ops) (which include links to the [API reference](https://ops.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) and other guides showing Ops in action)

Reviewer: Perhaps simpler to separate out the API reference into its own bullet point:
```suggestion
- Read our [user documentation](https://juju.is/docs/sdk/ops), which includes other guides showing `ops` in action
- Dig into the [`ops` API reference](https://ops.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
```

Author: OK

### Chat with us

Read our [Code of conduct](https://ubuntu.com/community/code-of-conduct) and:
- Join our chat: [Mattermost](https://chat.charmhub.io/charmhub/channels/charm-dev)
- Join our forum: [Discourse](https://discourse.charmhub.io/)
 
### File an issue

> - Report an `ops` bug on [GitHub](https://github.com/canonical/operator/issues)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Report an `ops` bug using [GitHub issues](https://github.com/canonical/operator/issues)
```

Author: OK

||||
|-|-|- |
|| Learn about Juju! | Start deploying charms: <br> https://juju.is/docs/juju <br> _Juju is declarative, model-driven, and has native support for integrations and scaling, on any cloud. You want to deploy `foo`? Run `juju deploy foo`! You wish to integrate `foo` and `bar`? Run `juju integrate foo bar`!_ |
||||
|| Get better at Juju! | Take advantage of the charm ecosystem: <br> https://charmhub.io/ <br> _Quickly deploy a cluster ([OpenStack](https://charmhub.io/openstack-base), [Kubernetes](https://charmhub.io/charmed-kubernetes)), a database ([PostgreSQL](https://charmhub.io/postgresql-k8s), [MongoDB](https://charmhub.io/mongodb), etc.), an observability stack ([Canonical Observability Stack](https://charmhub.io/cos-lite)), an MLOps solution ([Kubeflow](https://charmhub.io/kubeflow)), and so much more!_ |
||||
|:point_right:| **Make Juju your own!** | Write your own charm: <br> https://juju.is/docs/sdk <br> _Juju is written in Go, but our SDK supports easy charm development in Python!_ |

<!-- The text below is also at the top of ops/__init__.py. Keep in sync! -->
## Use Ops
Give it a quick try:

> The ops library is a Python framework ([`available on PyPI`](https://pypi.org/project/ops/)) for developing

Reviewer 2: I think the link to PyPI should stay.

Author: OK, I'll add it back in, thanks!

and testing [Juju](https://juju.is/) charms in a consistent way, using standard Python constructs

> to allow for clean, maintainable, and reusable code.

Reviewer 2: I think it's important to surface the clean, maintainable, reusable goals here.

Reviewer: I'm ambivalent on this one -- I think that stuff kind of goes without saying.

_(assumes you have a Linux that supports installation via snap)_

A charm is an operator -- business logic encapsulated in a reusable software
package that automates every aspect of an application's life.

Charms written with ops support Kubernetes using Juju's "sidecar charm"
pattern, as well as charms that deploy to Linux-based machines and containers.

Charms should do one thing and do it well. Each charm drives a single
application and can be integrated with other charms to deliver a complex
system. A charm handles creating the application in addition to scaling,
configuration, optimisation, networking, service mesh, observability, and other

> day-2 operations specific to the application.

Reviewer 2: What's the motivation for dropping this?

Author: Because this is defining what a charm _is supposed to be_, and that's something independent of Ops, so not really relevant here. 

We *could* make it relevant to Ops by using it to expand on the definition of Ops in the intro. E.g., instead of

> Ops is a Python framework for developing and testing charms.

we could say:

> Ops is a Python framework for developing and testing charms. It provides convenient Python wrappers around the hook tools that charm users can use to talk to the Juju API. 

However, I feel like that any elaboration of that sort makes more sense in the actual docs, so a better course of action would be to link to https://juju.is/docs/sdk/ops?dfg and, if the content there seems unsatisfactory, to iterate on it there. 

What do you think?

> # and add a model that you'll deploy your charm to.

Reviewer 2: If there's going to be this mini tutorial in the readme then it would be better as regular marked-up text with bits of code than a big lump of code with comments.

I'm not convinced that having this form of tutorial makes sense here. It's not really an **ops** tutorial, it's more of a Juju one. Having a clear example of code built with the library in a readme is good, but this isn't really hitting that mark.

Reviewer: Agreed on both points!

Reviewer 3: Would it not be easier to just link to the dev setup docs on juju.is so there is only one place to update? https://juju.is/docs/sdk/dev-setup

Author: > If there's going to be this mini tutorial in the readme then it would be better as regular marked-up text with bits of code than a big lump of code with comments.

Happy to update that way.

> I'm not convinced that having this form of tutorial makes sense here. It's not really an ops tutorial, it's more of a Juju one. 

I don't think it is possible to give a full Ops tutorial here. Also, we do that in the docs. Here I mainly wanted to provide a quick way to experience Ops in context. As in, OK, you know about Juju, Charmhub, the SDK -- where does Ops fit in and what does it _look like_? PS The idea is to do the same for Juju and Charmcraft also. See https://github.com/juju/juju/pull/16478/files and https://github.com/canonical/charmcraft/pull/1341 (They're all very similar -- there's the same table at the top and a very similar "give it a quick try" tutorial featuring a Multipass charm-dev VM. However, the "You're here" pointer in the table and the focus in the tutorial change.)

> Having a clear example of code built with the library in a readme is good, but this isn't really hitting that mark.

I agree that it's very minimal. As I said, I don't believe it's realistic to give a full tutorial in the README, and we already do that in the SDK docs. My main hope here was to get people to the point where they'd at least take a look at some of the Ops code already there through Charmcraft init. Would it be better for you if, in addition to the install hook, we also highlighted something else,

> Would it not be easier to just link to the dev setup docs on juju.is so there is only one place to update? https://juju.is/docs/sdk/dev-setup

It would be. And I as a rule I would do everything I can to avoid duplication. However, https://juju.is/docs/sdk/dev-setup feels more like a how-to guide -- it focuses on the steps, gives options, it is not end to end. Here I was trying to go for a tutorial, which is why I wanted to make it focused on the results (as in, let's take the shortest path to where we can see some Ops), opinionated (as in, trust me and use the Multipass `charm-dev` VM), and end-to-end, even if with gaps and very minimal.

 (PS For more detail on why I decided for the Multipass `charm-dev` VM, see also https://github.com/canonical/charmcraft/pull/1341#issuecomment-1776892506 )

Author: Touched up the existing dev-setup doc to have a section specifically on spinning up a Multipass `charm-dev` machine: https://juju.is/docs/sdk/dev-setup#heading--automatic-set-up-an-ubuntu-charm-dev-vm-with-multipass I'll link to that instead

The ops library is part of the Charm SDK (the other part being Charmcraft).
Full developer documentation for the Charm SDK is available at
https://juju.is/docs/sdk.

To learn more about Juju, visit https://juju.is/docs/olm.

## Pure Python
```
# Use the Multipass 'charm-dev' blueprint to quickly get an Ubuntu VM with Charmcraft
# as well as everything else you’ll need to develop and test a machine/ Kubernetes charm,
# including `tox`, a LXD / Kubernetes cloud -- 'localhost' / 'microk8s' -- and Juju,
# then use Juju to bootstrap a controller into a cloud -- below, 'microk8s'-
# and add a model that you'll deploy your charm to.
sudo snap install multipass && \
multipass launch --cpus 4 --memory 8G --disk 30G --name tutorial-vm charm-dev
juju bootstrap microk8s tutorial-controller; juju add-model tutorial-model

The framework provides a standardised Python object model that represents the
application graph, as well as an event-handling mechanism for distributed
system coordination and communication.
# Create a charm directory and use Charmcraft to initialise your charm file structure:
mkdir my-new-charm; cd my-new-charm; charmcraft init

> The latest version of ops requires Python 3.8 or above.

Reviewer 2: Why drop this? As a Python dev, I don't want to go digging through pyproject.toml or setup.py to find this information, and clicking through to PyPI just to get it takes me away from what I'm reading.

Author: Happy to work it into the intro paragraph.

# The files are already populated with functional templates. Poke around. 

Juju itself is written in Go for efficient concurrency even in large
deployments. Charms can be written in any language, however, we recommend using
Python with this framework to make development easier and more standardised.

> All new charms at Canonical are written using it.

Reviewer 2: What's the motivation for removing this?

Author: Happy to work it into the intro.

# 
#     def __init__(self, *args):
#         super().__init__(*args)
#         self.framework.observe(self.on['httpbin'].pebble_ready, self._on_httpbin_pebble_ready)
#         self.framework.observe(self.on.config_changed, self._on_config_changed)
# ...

A package of operator code is called a charmed operator or simply "charm".
You'll use [charmcraft](https://juju.is/docs/sdk/install-charmcraft) to
register your charm name and publish it when you are ready. You can follow one
of our [charming tutorials](https://juju.is/docs/sdk/tutorials) to get started
writing your first charm.
# Edit the files to make the charm your own.

# When you’re done, pack the example charm into a .charm file:
charmcraft pack

## Testing your charms
# If you haven’t edited the name of the charm,
# this will yield a file called ‘my-new-charm_ubuntu-22.04-amd64.charm’
# (the architecture bit may be different depending on your system's architecture).

The framework provides a testing harness, so you can ensure that your charm
does the right thing in different scenarios, without having to create
a full deployment. Our [API documentation](https://ops.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#module-ops.testing)

> has the details, including this example:

Reviewer 2: We definitely do not want to remove mention of testing, or the example. (We could potentially go further the other way, mentioning pytest-operator and scenario, but it makes sense to wait until the discussions in Riga around testing direction).

> ## Contribute to Ops

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure that "talk to us" is necessarily the best heading, but it's better than "contribute to ops". We're not providing these links just for people that might contribute - we're providing them to users of ops (a far bigger group).

Author: I thought about this for a long time. 

The reason I decided for a simple split into Use and Contribute -- with Contribute going progressively from talking to us to filing a bug to making a change, in the code or the docs -- is because I am not satisfied with the usual split into "End users" and "Developers": 

- Developers are also Users; 
- Users can also be developers as they can in principle also contribute to both the code and the docs (in fact, that's the whole premise behind open source, right?); and 
- imo contribution is not just submitting a PR to the code or the docs but also filing a bug and in fact even just talking to us, because that provides implicit feedback too and it's often the first stepping stone towards filing an issue and submitting a change.

However, I recognize that the decision is a bit unorthodox, so happy to replace the single Contribute section with three sections:
- Talk to us
- File an issue
- Make a change

The decision is ultimately up to you, the Ops project owners, so I will make whatever change you request. However, (1) it would ultimately be good to have uniformity across the various Juju world projects and (2) the pattern I am am currently recommending is the Use - Contribute one I mentioned, for the reasons mentioned above.

> - Report an Ops bug on [GitHub](https://github.com/canonical/charmcraft/issues)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Report an Ops bug on [GitHub](https://github.com/canonical/operator/issues)
```

> - Read our [codebase contributor guidelines](https://github.com/canonical/operator/blob/main/HACKING.md) and our [API reference](https://ops.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) and help improve the codebase

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Read our [codebase contributor guidelines](HACKING.md) and our [API reference](https://ops.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) and help improve the codebase
```

Reviewer 2: I feel like this hides away the API reference docs link a bit - it feels like it's implying that it's for contributors, but it's really for users. I think if anything it should be _more_ prominent than in the current version rather than _less_.

(It seems like a properly Canonical imprrovement would be to have right at the top the quadrant of docs).

Author: I agree the API reference is user material and belongs in the user docs. I'll move it there. (It's already implicit at the end of the Use section, in the link the Charm SDK docs, but I can try to highlight it more directly by adding also an explicit link to the Charm SDK doc on Ops.
